Let's have a look at problem 13 to ideal parallel play capacitors are identical except one has twice
the area of the other.
If the smaller capacitor has a capacitance labeled as C the larger one has capacitance.
OK.
So this is kind of the large versus the small.
And again these plates are separated by a certain distance.
Let's just assume they're just air filled.
Again the capacitance of the smaller one would write it maybe as this if you remember the parallel plate
capacitor it's a primitive city of free space multiplied by the area of the plate and divided by the
distance.
So in this case it would be the area of this plate right here.
Now what we've just said is that the area of this guy is two times whatever the area of that one is.
But the spacing is the same.
So right the capacitor of the large plate would be Epsilon 0.
The area is two times a and divided by the distance.
So all of this I can take the two out and everything that's left over.
Well if you look at everything here in the bracket this looks identical to the capacitance of the small.
And that makes sense right.
If you have larger plates it means you can put more charge on it.
Okay.
And you're gonna have twice as much capacity.
So the correct answer for this one is C..
Pretty straightforward.
Number 14 when two or more various capacitors are connected in parallel to each other you just highlight
that across one battery which are the following statements must be true.
And again we could have more than one correct answer.
I would do as I would probably just draw a diagram draw a battery and let's draw some capacitors.
And we'd only have to put two to two or more but let's just this one here is capacitance C1 and this
one here is capacitance C2.
All right.
The potential difference across each capacitor is the same.
Yeah I imagine this is like a 12 volt battery.
That means that this is a parallel circuit right.
So it means that the voltage across a points A and B must also be 12 volts.
You're going to have 12 volts across each one.
Consider point C and D over here.
I'm also going to measure 12 volts.
It has to be equal to the voltage of the battery.
So this one here is true.
Each capacitor carries the same amount of charge.
Well let's think about it from and how much charge do I have on capacitor C one.
Well if I remember my equation it's the charge is equal to the capacitance multiplied by the voltage
across which you just said is going to be the same.
I was going to call it V which is the voltage of the battery 12 volts the charge on capacitor C2 would
be well C two multiplied by the voltage across.
Now the voltage is the same but the capacitance might not be the same.
They're not necessarily identical to each other so that means that each capacitor might not have the
same amount of charge right if this value C one is different from C two that's it.
You have different amount of charge the equivalent capacitance of this combination is less than the
capacitance of any one.
Well again now the rule for parallel capacitors is the equivalent one is equal to see one plus C two
make it different from the resistor equivalent resistance formula.
OK.
It's actually the opposite.
Okay so actually in this case here if I have two of them in parallel the equivalent I can replace that
by one equivalent capacitor which ends up being bigger.
It acts like a bigger capacitor and the value here is equivalent.
So it's not going to be less.
That's kind of the problem with that.
So that was false.
What's this.
The capacitor with the largest capacitance has the largest potential difference across it.
Oh no.
Because we just said it's going to be the same for each one.
The voltage is going to be the same it doesn't matter on the value of c be a little bit careful that
one and the last one choice e the capacitor with the largest capacitance has the most charge.
Oh yeah.
We just argued here from our using our charge equation.
So this one is also true.
So we have two correct choices there choice and choice.
You're both correct.
Here's problem 15 we have a tiny particle that has this magnitude it's initially moving at 55 meters
per second.
It's then accelerated through a potential difference of 500 volts.
How much kinetic energy does this particle gain during this period of acceleration.
All right well I would kind of draw it.
I think so.
Whatever the voltage is the only thing I know is that there is a difference of voltage which is equal
to 500 volts.
So what else do we know.
We have a tiny particle here that is plus five micro cool and initially has some speeds.
I don't know let's just kind of have it over here and it's emotionally moving like this at fifty five
meters per second.
The magnitude of the charge q is five times 10 to the negative 6 micro Coolum.
All right let me just for just her.
This problem here I imagine this guy here was going to be plus 250 then this guy was gonna be minus
250 volts all right just for a comparison here.
So what's going to happen while there is AK an electric field here and a positive charge wants to get
away from this one and wants to go toward this one.
Right.
So there is a force acting on it.
However we want to know how much kinetic energy does it gain.
So it has some initial kinetic energy here but the question is asking for what is the change of kinetic
energy.
All right there's going to be a change of kinetic energy because there's going to be a change of potential
Right here there's a lot of potential energy right here there is less potential energy so that's why
there is this change so the total energy has to be conserved.
If you think about it here we have some initial kinetic energy plus some initial potential energy and
this here's the final position so we're gonna have some final plus some final.
What we're looking for is the change.
OK.
So again all of this here has to be the same.
So let me do all the math over here.
So we have our initial plus my initial has to be my final plus my final.
All right let's group together the kinetic energies I'll put them all on the right hand side here.
So this is K final minus K initial so this is really the change of kinetic energy.
This is really what we're looking for that's going to be how much it's going to gain.
So this is going to be you initial minus you final.
OK.
Now if you think about this expression here we want to write the change.
This is negative the change in terms of the voltage but at any point I could write down just clean this
up for a second here.
At any point what I could do is I can write down the potential energy in terms of the potential right.
So the potential energy initial will be the initial or the charge multiplied by the initial voltage
minus the final potential energy is that charge q multiplied by the final voltage.
And this here's the change of kinetic energy at the end here if you can factor this out what you're
going to end up getting right here is v initial minus V final equals to my change of kinetic energy.
And here this is exactly what we need right because this here is simply going to be the 250 minus the
250.
OK.
This guy right here in the bracket has to be five hundred volts.
This guy here is my 5 micro cool.
That's the charge.
So at the end you end up getting that the change of kinetic energy is the charge five times ten to the
negative six multiplied by again this change of voltage which is five hundred volts.
All right if you multiply that out at the end you should get this answer right here choice B OK it would
be the correct answer this problem's probably a little bit harder for you but hopefully you were able
to kind of argue like this.
Use conservation of energy again because we're looking for the kinetic energy here
here's problem 16 says how much work must we do on an electron to move it from this initial position
to the final position along this semi circular path.
Assume that the system is isolated from anything else and here we have the numerical value so it looks
like we have to do a calculation the first thing to notice about this one is it doesn't matter on the
path right.
We talked about this in the class this is path independent so it really only matters where you start
and where you finish so you start here and we're going to finish down over here.
So that's all that matters.
I could take it along any path I want.
It really doesn't matter can take it around here and end it over there.
OK so the path doesn't matter.
So now we want to calculate the work done by a person or someone who's going to move the electron the
electrons are actually quite happy to be here.
Let me draw the electron right here and here's a negative charge one point six 10 of the negative 19
right.
It's very happy to be close to this positive charge right here.
This is a positive charge and this is a negative charge.
If you think about the forces involved right when the electron is kind of say midway I just draw right
here again it doesn't matter on the path.
So when it's right here.
Well somebody has to apply a force like this.
This is my applied force because there is a electric force acting opposite of that right.
The electron wants to go this way.
All right.
This is the cool Ohm's Law force.
This is the electric force acting on the electron.
So if you remember the work of equation the work done by the electric field guy.
This is electric field.
This is very easy to calculate because it's a conservative force.
It's equal to negative the change in potential energy.
So let's go ahead and do this.
So this is negative.
Now we know the potential where we start and where we finished.
So you can always write this is negative Q multiplied by the change in voltage.
So this is minus Q And this is v final minus V initial.
Okay.
This is really just a matter of plugging everything in.
So we have minus what is the charge of the electron now what's negative one point six times ten to the
negative 19.
And what is the change of voltage while v final here is minus 50.
You gotta be careful with all these negative signs and minus V initial the initial is 50.
All right.
So you get a think about all the negative signs here you get actually three negative signs here you're
gonna get negative one hundred for everything here in the bracket.
The second bracket that's negative one hundred volts and both of those at the end the final answer you'll
get is going to be negative and this is one point six times 10 to the negative 17 and this is measured
in Joules so this is the work done by the electric field so first of all we notice that it is negative.
And the reason that it's negative again if you consider an electron moving from this position to that
one the electric force is acting to the left.
But what is the direction of the displacement.
My net displacement is that way right.
And the force the electric force anyway is this way.
So that's why we get a negative value for the work done by the field.
Now the work done by me.
That's what we're asking for right here.
The work done by this applied force is always going to be opposite of the work done by the electric
force.
So in this case really we have to do positive work of one point six times ten to the negative seven
seventeen not nineteen seventeen jewels joules again my work is going to be positive even if you go
along the circular path because the forces that I'm applying is going to be like this and the displacement
is also along the same direction.
So when you have a force in a displacement that are in the same direction what you end up getting is
positive work.
And again I do positive work because I'm storing I'm putting energy into the system.
The electron doesn't want to do like this.
Right.
I am storing potential energy into the system
for example if I let that electron go once I'm over here it's going to shoot back on the other side.
That's because I've put a lot of potential energy into the system by doing some work.
All right.
So all of that to say that B is the correct answer.
You've got to be careful with the signs here.